feat: Toolbar tool which enables to add Items into UI container to invoke different functionality in Reveal (#1693)
cognitedata/reveal: documentation/docs/examples/toolbar.mdx

---
id: toolbartool
title: Toolbar tool
describe: Toolbar container with Default Toolbar and add custom toolbar items to access features within Reveal. 
---

import { DemoWrapper } from '@site/docs/components/DemoWrapper';

> Reveal provides feature for using toolbar to add custom elements. Default elements for toolbar are readily available for the users to enable or disable Reveal features.
> Custom toolbar helps the user to add button to the toolbar container or to the default toolbar container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reveal provides a toolbar to add custom elements. Default elements for toolbar are readily available for the users to enable or disable Reveal features. The toolbar can be customized to help the user to add custom buttons.
```

<DemoWrapper name="Cognite3DViewerDemo" />

## Default Toolbar elements
Default toolbar elements are listed below which can be used to activate or deactivate features in Reveal.
- Take Screenshot - `addAxisToolToggle()`.

> - Enable/Disable Axis Tool - `addTakeScreenshotTool()`.

Reviewer: Wrong ;)

> ## Default Toolbar elements
> Default toolbar elements are listed below which can be used to activate or deactivate features in Reveal.
> - Take Screenshot - `addTakeScreenshotTool()`.
> - Enable/Disable Axis Tool - `addAxisToolToggle()`.
> - Enable/Disable Camera Target on Click - `addCameraTargetOnClickToggle()`.
> - Toggle Camera Zoom-past/Zoom-to Cursor - `addZoomPastToCursorToggle()`.
> - Fit Camera to Model - `addFitCameraToModel()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Default toolbar elements
Supported default toolbar elements are listed below which can be used to activate or deactivate features in Reveal, or perform common actions.
- Take screenshot - `addTakeScreenshotTool()`.
- Enable/Disable axis tool - `addAxisToolToggle()`.
- Enable/Disable camera target on click - `addCameraTargetOnClickToggle()`.
- Toggle camera zoom-past/zoom-to Cursor mode - `addZoomPastToCursorToggle()`.
- Fit camera to model - `addFitCameraToModel()`.
```

> To create and use default elements in toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These can be added to the toolbar on construction:
```

```js runnable
// import { ToolbarTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const toolbar = new ToolbarTool(viewer, model);
toolbar.addAxisToolToggle();
toolbar.addTakeScreenshotTool();
toolbar.addCameraTargetOnClickToggle();
toolbar.addZoomPastToCursorToggle();
toolbar.addFitCameraToModel();
```

## Add elements
Each toolbar element in Reveal provides flexibilty for the user to add tooltip, icon image and a callback function to trigger when the icon button is clicked.

> We add a new element to the toolbar with `addToolbarItem(toolTip: string, backgroundImageUri: string, isToggle: boolean, onClick: () => void)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New elements can be added to the toolbar using `addToolbarItem(toolTip: string, backgroundImageUri: string, isToggle: boolean, onClick: () => void)`
```

- `toolTip` - Tooltip for the Icon button
- `backgroundImageUri` - Background image to be placed onto icon button. The image needs to be in string with `base64` format.
- `isToggle` - Is the icon button used as toggle
- `onClick` - Click event callback function which can be used to perform custom functionlity of the user

### Creating new elements for the toolbar
By creating ToolbarTool object, user can add elements to the new toolbar.

```jsx
// import { ToolbarTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

// import iconSet42 from './img/Cognite_Icon_Set-42.png';
// import iconSet54 from './img/Cognite_Icon_Set-54.png';
// import iconSet63 from './img/Cognite_Icon_Set-63.png';

const toolbar = new ToolbarTool(viewer);

const callbackMsg = () => (
    alert("result called")
);

toolbar.addToolbarItem('Explode View', iconSet42, true, callbackMsg);
toolbar.addToolbarItem('Maps', iconSet54, false, callbackMsg);

> toolbar.addToolbarItem('Settings', iconSet63, true, callbackMsg);

Reviewer: Replace the random names with better names to make the example clearer

```

> ## Toolbar Position

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Toolbar position
```

We can set the position of the toolbar to either of the below position within the Reveal window using `setPosition(position: ToolbarPosition)`.
- `top`
- `bottom`
- `left`
- `right`

```jsx
toolbar.setPosition('top');
```
:::note

> Default position of toolbar is at the Bottom of the window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default position of toolbar is at the bottom of the window.
```

<DemoWrapper name="Cognite3DViewerDemo" />

## Default toolbar elements
Supported default toolbar elements are listed below which can be used to activate or deactivate features in Reveal, or perform common actions.
- Take screenshot - `addTakeScreenshotTool()`.
- Enable/Disable axis tool - `addAxisToolToggle()`.
- Enable/Disable camera target on click - `addCameraTargetOnClickToggle()`.
- Toggle camera zoom-past/zoom-to Cursor mode - `addZoomPastToCursorToggle()`.
- Fit camera to model - `addFitCameraToModel()`.

These can be added to the toolbar on construction:

```js runnable
// import { ToolbarTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const toolbar = new ToolbarTool(viewer, model);
toolbar.addAxisToolToggle();
toolbar.addTakeScreenshotTool();
toolbar.addCameraTargetOnClickToggle();
toolbar.addZoomPastToCursorToggle();
toolbar.addFitCameraToModel();
```

## Add elements
Each toolbar element in Reveal provides flexibilty for the user to add icon image, a callback function to trigger when the icon button is clicked and optional tooltip.
New elements can be added to the toolbar by methods using
`addToolbarButton(backgroundImageUri: string, onClick: () => void, toolTip: string = '')`

> - `backgroundImageUri` - Background image to be placed onto icon button. Pass the data URL of the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `backgroundImageUri` - Background image to be placed on the button. Can be a data URL or a "normal" URL.
```
Supports regular URLs too, right?

- `onClick` - Click event callback function which will be used to perform custom functionlity provided by the user.
- `toolTip` - Optional tooltip for the Icon button

`addToolbarToggleButton(backgroundImageUri: string, onToggled: () => void, isActive: boolean, toolTip: string = '')`

> - `backgroundImageUri` - Background image to be placed onto icon button. Pass the data URL of the image.

Reviewer: Change accordingly to the above suggestion.
